Let's move on to some accessible icons.
We're going to work with
something called Font Awesome and
I imagine many of you have heard of
font awesome before fontawesome.com.
Now the reason I'm using Font Awesome
here is because Font Awesome is a free or
potentially part free part
paid font library that
offers a ton of icons that
are available to you.
So if you were to go to fontawesome.com
Click on Start for Free.
Let's see here or icons, I guess I
should say, up at the top navigation.
If you click on the icons,
it will tell you that there are 7864
icons today, not all of them are free.
If you click on Free over
here in the left navigation
only 1608 icons are free today and
this is Font Awesome five.
As of this recording, there is about
to be a release for Font Awesome 6, but
we're gonna work with
Font Awesome 5 today.
The reason we're gonna use a font for
doing this is just to again because
this is an introductory CSS course,
we're gonna try to make things
simple when working with icons.
Many professionals will tell you that
they prefer to work with an actual SVG,
a Scalable Vector Graphic, which will give
you the Math for drawing these types of
icons and incorporate those
SVGs into their document.
I prefer to use Font Awesome when I'm
teaching a course like this because
with a single installation,
we have access to 1608 icons, and so
it's easy to make changes and
swap things in and out.
You may also like it for
prototyping for that reason.
Once you have defined exactly
what icons you want to use,
you could always go back later and swap
those out for the actual SVG Code instead.
The reason people like SVG
better than the font itself,
the fonts file size is much
larger than the individual SVGs.
It's rare that you're going to use this
entire icon set inside of your website.
So why load all of that stuff in,
if you're only gonna use
a handful of icons in the first?
But for our purposes this is perfect.
Let's go through swapping
out the LinkedIn icon then
I'm going to let you guys
swap out the GitHub icon and
add an icon for yourself for
whatever it is that you want to do.
So we are here this was at
Part 3 Adding Accessible Icon.
So I'm gonna walk you through adding
the LinkedIn icon now So we'll
start here inside of Font Awesome and
we are looking for an icon for LinkedIn.
So in the search box,
all we have to do is type in LinkedIn, and
as it turns out,
there are two options here.
I prefer the one with the box.
If you like the other one,
that's okay too.
When you click on that particular icon
it's going to give you notice here, it
will give you the option of downloading,
that's this download icon here.
You could download the SVG from here.
It'll also give you the HTML that
will call that particular icon.
It will give you the Unicode option
that's useful in some environments.
I've used that when working in Web Flow,
for example and or
you can copy the Unicode glyph.
We're gonna copy this HTML right here,
click that.
And then inside of our
code pane in our HTML,
we'll scroll on back
here to our LlinkedIn and
I am going to drop in
inside of the link itself
Right there, I'm going to
paste in that particular code.
And I think I'm just going to
reformat this a little bit just so
you can read it a little bit
better there on the screen.
So we've got an li, we've got our a link
right and then we have this code that we
just copied in from Font Awesome and
nothing is happening why is that?
We haven't loaded the font.
So, let's load the font.
We're gonna go to our settings,
we're gonna go to our CSS, and
scroll on down here to external
style sheets and pens.
One of the things that's great about
CodePen is it already has Font Awesome,
accessible for you.
So, if in the search box here at the top
we start to type in Font Awesome.
It'll give you in this
case version 5.15.4.
That's the most recent
version at the moment.
Click that it'll add that line of code
right here and we can say Save and Close.
And you'll see here now
inside of our link,
we have our LinkedIn icon in
addition to the LinkedIn works.
So that's pretty awesome.
So we're gonna make a couple of tweaks
though to the code that Font Awesome
gives us and it has given me an I here and
I guess it's doing this because I is icon.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
The I element dates from very
early on on the web back before,
we had a lot of support for CSS, and if we
wanted to make things bold we used B and
if we wanted to make
things italic we used I.
Obviously, CSS came along and
we switched over to more semantic
elements is strong and M, but B and
I have made a comeback in HTML five.
They mean all they mean completely
different things that have nothing to do
with bolded and talic.
All right, and
they don't mean icon either.
So I don't particularly like this markup.
I prefer to use it with span,
which is a better choice.
So I always change this,
to span when I work with this
if you want to leave it as I,
it's certainly fine to do
a lot of people do that.
And then the other thing now that
happens in terms of accessibility,
you want to hide the icon
from the screen readers, but
you want your people who are browsing
this website to be able to see the icon.
But for screen readers you may want
that text that says LinkedIn but
you want to hide that from
people who can see the icon.
So we need to do a little bit of
juggling here to expose the icon or
the words to the correct person.
Now, this trick of hiding the words,
I recommend only when the icon is
really truly something that your target
audience is going to understand.
This is a portfolio website.
People who are looking for employees know
what LinkedIn is and know the the icon.
They know what the GitHub icon But if you
are in a situation where, I don't know,
you want to have some sort of icon show
up for the about portion of the page,
that you're going to need to
include some words with it.
So think through whether people will
actually understand what that icon means.
So the way we'll set this up is
as follows inside of our icon,
we're going to say aria
hidden equals true.
So this is going to hide the icon
itself from screen readers.
Okay?
So that's the first part of this.
And then the second part of this is
the with the word LinkedIn itself and
I'm going to put a screen
Span around this and
I'm going to add a class
of SSR hyphen only
The word LinkedIn and
then slash span So what is this?
This is an SSR hyphen only anytime you
see that, and you'll see it in Bootstrap.
You'll see it in Tailwind,
you'll see it in all kinds of places,
all kinds of frameworks.
It means screen reader only.
So this is a CSS style that comes
from the bootstraps, or sorry,
from the Font Awesome style sheet.
And it will take that word and
set it in such a way that screen readers
are able to read it if they are reading
your webpage but people who
are looking at your page visually
will not see that word and in fact.
That is what's going on here.
You can see the LinkedIn icon, but you
don't see the LinkedIn words anymore, but
yet it's still accessible.
So these are the changes that you need
to make if you're gonna work with
Font Awesome and
you're gonna work with its icon set.
These two changes.
The Aria Hidden True on the icon and then
make sure the words are either there for
everyone depending on the kind of icon
that you're using or add that class
of SR only if the words need to be
hidden from all but screen readers.
Those particular classes come from
Font Awesome and the way that,
It thinks about the world.
So just any page of icons that
you happen to be looking at here.
I'm gonna look at this chameleon,
it has an FAB, start to add an FA.
This link here has FAS starts with FAS.
It has to do with some sort of styling
here inside of Font Awesome but
all of these icons will start with FAS,
FAB FA whatever they all start with FA.
Fortunately there's a very cool
selector that we can use that
will say if it starts with FA...
If it contains FA as
part of the class name,
we can apply certain
kinds of styling to it.
Let's apply that now because we need
to make this a little bit bigger.
It looks kind of tiny right
there inside of this nav bar.
Here inside of my Nav bar what
I'm going to do is add to this.
A nav with a class and
this is in square brackets,
I'm gonna say class star equals,
quote, FA, hyphen.
And, We're
going to say the font size Is 150% and
the color is var aqua, all right?
So, font size not hard to understand,
150% means make it 150% bigger
than the base font size.
Color, probably you got that good.
What about the selector?
So this selector is called
the attribute selector.
So rather than looking for
the HTML element UL nav A all
the rest of them this is looking for
One of the attributes
inside of the HTML tag.
So here we've got we have a class,
that's our attribute and
we have FA B we have FA hyphen LinkedIn,
right FA hyphen LinkedIn.
So I'm targeting this starting
FA hyphen portion of this class.
So we're looking for
an attribute of class.
So that has a value of somewhere
inside of that FA hyphen is part of
the class name and if that's the case
then apply this particular style.
So that is what this
particular class is doing here